hey how's it going Dave 2d here and in
front of me is the XPS 13 this is
running the latest eighth generation CPU
from Intel the KB Lake R and I don't
know if this laptop really needs an
introduction because it's really
well-known but for the people that
aren't familiar with it I'll just do
like a quick overview kind of thing for
the stuff that hasn't changed basically
this is a really well-built
thin and light ultra book with a 13-inch
screen and this was one of the original
13 inch screen ultra books that rivaled
the whole MacBook experience this is
well built it looks good and it's just a
really strong performer and that was
three years ago and they've kept
upgrading them and refreshing them over
the years and at this point this is
really really solid these are now
running quad core processors so the
stuff that hasn't changed it's still
running a great screen it comes in two
options for the screen a 1080p panel and
a quad HD panel you can't go wrong with
either of them they're both very very
good thin bezels they call them infinity
edge displays and because the bezels are
so thin the experience when you're
looking at these screens is really
immersive there's just very little
material on the edges to distract you
from what you're watching or what you're
doing now the screen I'm running is at
an DP panel it's not touchscreen but
that's just a personal preference I
don't really like using touch screens on
laptops I know a lot of people do but
the one thing that XPS laptops are
really good at is the touch screen thing
it's not that the screen is more
sensitive it's because of the hinge so
the XPS lineup the 13 and the 15 has a
very stiff ange it's so stiff that you
can't even open it up with one hand like
you can kind of do it but you got to
jiggle it
but the stiff hinge has a huge benefit
when it comes to touchscreens because
when you're poking at it there's just
very little wobble when you're tapping
at the screen and a lot of laptops have
loose hinges that are nice to open easy
to open but once you start touching them
it's really wobbly and that's a bummer
but this one they do it well the
keyboard is also unchanged it's got back
letting the layout is good and most
people will quickly adapt this keyboard
and enjoy it it's not the most
comfortable or the best keyboard out
there it's actually very average for an
ultrabook
but it is good and if you use it for
long enough you'll learn to type really
quickly on it the trackpad is also
unchanged it's a little small but it's
running Windows precision drivers right
out of the box so tracking is good
gestures work perfectly it's a really
good trackpad
overall the build quality has not
changed and that's a good thing I guess
I mean it's built really well it's
actually very tanky for its size and
weight but I'm getting bored of its
design it's not a bad design it's not
ugly or anything that's just we've been
seeing this for almost three years at
this point and I really wish they would
at least change the color they are
offering an Alpine white version which
isn't available yet but I really wish
they'd had like a black version like
they have the XPS 13 tuned one and this
really nice black finish but in the
meantime I'm running a D brand scan this
is actually black dragon I think it
looks pretty cool now before I talk
about performance and some of the things
that have changed I want to touch on
some things that haven't changed that I
don't particularly love first is the
issue of coil whine I know this is
something that bothers a lot of you guys
it doesn't bother me too much I don't
see it very often in laptops but the XPS
13 and 15 some of the units have
Coraline and this is actually the first
review unit I've ever had that had
Coraline and it's slight it's very very
subtle but it's there and it doesn't
bother me and I know that some people
are really irked by this it's still
present so that's something that really
bothered you it's still there and if for
people I don't know what quell whine is
it's this slight hum or just electronic
noise that you can barely hear but it's
there another thing that hasn't changed
is the location of the webcam it's still
at the bottom of the screen so it looks
up your nose when you're using the
webcam it's not the most flattering
video angle but it's kind of the price
you have to pay when you have such a
thin bezel screen basically every
manufacturer that has an ultra thin
bezel like this has some kind of weird
webcam angle okay the last thing that
hasn't changed are the ports and this is
kind of a good thing because the port
selection is always good there's an SD
card slot 2 USB a s and a thin about 3
but the things that I don't love the
Thunderbolt 3 port yet again only uses 2
PCIe lanes so if you're running an
external GPU you're not getting the full
bandwidth which on a laptop like this
running a fork or KB Lake our chip it
would be nice to have four lanes of PCI
II for an external GPU I understand it's
a very limited number of people that
would actually use it for that but it
would have been nice the other thing is
that the power connection still uses a
barrel plug it would have been really
nice to see a USB C port there this
thing can easily handle it 45 watt
adapter plug it in use PC you
rustle charging everybody wins except it
would have cost a little bit more for
them to make oh well okay let's talk
about the things that have changed and
the big thing is performance KB Lake our
processors the eighth generation CPUs
are phenomenal
the jump that you get going from the
seventh gen stuff to the 8th gen CPUs
we're talking like a 50 to 60% increase
in multi-core performance and depending
what you do or what apps you use that
can be a huge difference in your
workflow and it's crazy because the 5th
to the 6th to the seventh generation
CPUs I mean those always like
incremental increases like we're talking
10 15 % each year this 50 to 60% it's
huge and it all comes from core count
not every application can take advantage
of multi-core like this but you'll
notice a significant increase in speed
for processor intensive stuff this is
running the Intel HD graphics 620 which
is a little bit of an improvement over
the previous generation the HD 620
you're trying to play games you're still
not gonna have a great time you're gonna
be able to play some really lightweight
titles with low resolution and low
graphic settings but if you want to play
something even moderately demanding it's
not gonna be good the external GPU like
I mentioned before you're only getting
two lanes of PCIe I plugged up a razor
core to this it does work it does
connect but it's not designed for gaming
and that's the other thing I noticed
this laptop doesn't have a high
performance mode I don't know it's
because it's the review sample I was
sent but normally in Windows you can
adjust your power plan and you can
choose between balanced or high
performance but I didn't have the option
for high performance on this laptop so I
couldn't really test it the way I wanted
to one thing to keep in mind though this
is a 15 watt CPU so even though it's
quad-core there are quad core gaming
laptops out there that are 45 watt CPU
such as triple the power consumption so
you're not gonna be able to get the same
kind performance on this quad core
laptop as a gaming quad core laptop
they're just not built that way but I
will say this this laptop the eighth
generation CPU is such a big improvement
over the previous generation that it
doesn't make sense for anyone to
purchase the seventh gen CPUs it's just
too much of a performance difference and
the battery life has improved a little
bit I'm getting around eleven and a half
to 12 hours of battery life with the
screen at 215 it's on the 10
panel if you have the quad HD panel
it'll be a little bit less I'm thinking
nine hours about your life maybe ten for
lucky but all-around great laptop the
drive on the inside is fast the RAM is
still soldered on
it's an XPS 13 through and through now I
want to touch on one last thing before
it closes off and that's customer
support the laptop industry doesn't have
great customer support that's just the
nature of the business I would consider
Dells to be slightly above average not
amazing not even great is just slightly
above average but if that's important to
you if you really want long-term
customer support for your laptop I would
put these guys a little bit higher on
your list of short choices because we
have what ever considered to be above
average customer support okay hope you
guys enjoyed this video it's an easy
choice if you're looking for a thin and
light ultrabook eighth generation XPS 13
mm yeah x time
you